AI loves to just create endlessly, never
deleting code. And if it does, you may
get 10 lines deleted, 2,000 lines added.
And so what many Vibe coders see is that
even when asking the AI to refactor
something, it actually usually ends up
in a net ad of code rather than removal.
>> What the heck is this thing doing? I
most recently talked about this massive
amount of code as being an issue in my
37,000 lines of slop video. So, that
video was quite a bit of critique. This
video, I want to take an opportunity to
talk about a tool that can help fight
that slop. And that tool is
check this thing out. is a CLI that
finds all kinds of things like dead
code, code duplication, architectural
boundary issues, and tons of things that
AI loves to do. So, I'm going to show
you this thing in action, and we're
going to talk all about it. First and
foremost, the biggest question on your
mind, is it fast? Well, it's built in
Rust, so that means you know it's fast.
It actually is very fast all things uh
considered. The benchmarks do be
benchmarking. Now, using FOW is dead
simple. You just run npxow and then
there's a number of different tools like
dead code, dupes, health and you can
even have it autofix. Let's talk about
the first one which is dead code. So I
have a codebase here and this codebase
was not totally vibe coded but mostly
vibecoded and we can run npxow
and then dead code. When I run this what
it's going to do is it's going to
generate a report. This is going to find
anything from unused files to duplicated
exports or TypeScript uh unused
TypeScript types. And it says in their
docs that most projects find 50 plus
unused exports on the first run. So what
are my results? 15 exports, 19 types,
and one unused dependency and one
testonly dependency. Apparently I have
D3 array in here and I've never used it.
I don't know why I have D3 and array in
here, but it is. And if we check this
out, it's going to give you a detailed
report. Unused type exports. Now, this
is really great because every single
time that AI writes something, changes
course, and doesn't clean up after
itself, that dead code is just sitting
there. It's polluting your context. It's
making the results worse over time
because there's this stuff that's
unnecessary just sitting in your
codebase, but the agents might as well
think these things still exist. Now from
here we have a detailed report and you
can have an AI skill that goes ahead and
runs this after each commit and then
cleans up after itself. But the best
part is is that because it's a
definitive here's the file, here's the
line, here's the thing that is wrong. It
makes it absolutely trivial for AI to go
clean it up. Now, another neat feature
of the dead code tool is the boundary
violations. You can actually write your
fellow JSON file to determine what the
boundaries are as in never should the UI
code import something from the database
folder or never should it import from
these folders and it uses globs to do
that. There's a number of built-in
presets here that you can use. Uh or you
can easily write your own with your
individually tuned preset or just folder
structure. So that way when AI is
working, it can run your boundary
violations code and it can report back
to the agent, hey, there's been a
boundary violation. And and I say this
about in the context of AI, but like
we've all had team members who just
willy-nilly do stuff. I mean, importing
a server something to somewhere should
be a problem. And it's really cool that
you can put this into your CI and warn
everybody that something wrong is going
down. Therefore, giving the user the
chance to fix it without it getting
caught in a code review because we know
that code reviews can take a long time
and if the tools find the errors before
a user does, then it's easier to fix.
And honestly, it's probably better for
personalities, too, if the robot is
telling you your sucks. Now another
really cool tool in here is the dupes
command. Now dupes is really interesting
because again another thing AI loves to
do is write something once and then oh
it needs that same kind of function in
another folder. Let me just write it
here too. Oh and let me just write it
here too even though it's already in
this codebase. It's not going to scan
your whole codebase every single time
unless you're really strict with it. So
let's go ahead and run npxow
and then it's dupes. And by default,
what it is is an abbased tokenization to
find clones. You can see here that it
has found some serious issues. Now, not
all of these are things you'll want to
always fix, and that's a good thing
because this tool is highly configurable
in how exactly it is finding
duplications. Because sometimes those
duplications like oh hey it's found this
line of code that is duplicated from 231
to 244 on the aggregation file. It's
also in the same file as uh 328 to 338.
That's a prime target for something that
is going to be refactored. And this is
one of those tools that you will want to
when you're first getting used to it,
verify and validate that the things that
you are seeing are in fact actual
issues, but also how you like to code. I
have found this tool as being really
helpful for an AI that refuses to reuse
functions. What's interesting here too
is that there's even cross language
support across Typescript and JavaScript
files. By default, it does use asbased
tokenization in finding clones. However,
the other modes like weak, which is a
straight up string value differ or a
semantic one that tries to uh find
duplicated code that was copied and then
adapted with new variable names, right?
So, you can use this thing and try it
out in different types of ways. Really
cool stuff. Now, there's also a health
command. And when we run this, it's
going to give you some refactoring
targets. You can see, check this thing
out. Again, this is not an AI just going
off and making these judgments. This is
based on both dead code complexity, how
much the effort is going to be, and how
high of a confidence it has in that the
fact that this will improve this code.
For instance, in this date normalization
file, it says remove five used exports
to reduce its surface area. Wow. Now, if
that's clear instructions that an AI
could handle, a junior developer could
handle those instructions. And I think
it's really super cool that these tools
exist in this way. And the one thing I
absolutely love about this tool is how
fast it is. Meaning that you can just
keep running it. You can have agents run
it. You can run it personally, put in
your CI, any of that sort of stuff. Now,
there's also the ability to autofix
stuff. So, if we run npx fowix hyphen
dry hyphen run, it's going to show us
what it's going to do. Now, autofix
tools kind of freak me out a little bit
for some reason, but you can see exactly
what the plan is going to be here. So,
if I then run this without the dry run,
hit enter, I can go ahead and check my
codebase, and it's going to clean this
thing up. I can check my code. And if we
look at the actual changes here, you can
see it's not that it removed this
entirely, it's that we don't need to
export this. So, of course, it just
removed the export. So, really cool
stuff. I'm going to use this tool
regardless if I'm working with AI or
not. Now, other neat things in here are
SCSS and Tailwind Analysis. They
recently added agent skills as well, so
you can go ahead and add yourow skills
directly to your AI agent, meaning that
you don't have to write them yourself,
and your agent will just know how to
run. There's also Cloud Code hooks,
which are super handy if you want this
stuff to run on a hook when things
changed, as well as a VS Code extension,
CI integration, and even health badges.
Now, another thing I really appreciate
about here is that there's 90 builtin
plugins. That means that most of the
things that you use will just work. And
I'm talking about spelt kit, Gatsby,
Astro, Angular, Expo, NextJS, NestJS,
Nitro, Capacitor, Sel, uh, Vess, and the
bundlers. V, Webpack, RS pack, RS build,
roll up, roll down, TS up, TS down, uh,
linting. It works with all the llinters.
My gosh, it works with all the darn
stuff. So, check this thing out. This
tool fights slob.